The format of the sample ID is GTEX-[donor ID]-[tissue site ID]-SM-[aliquot ID]. 

10.20
Selected all human SLCs from RNA seq dataframe with filter.py.

10.22
We first focus on differential expression pattern between 2 tissue, the ID of 
which are 0126 and 0326.

10.24
Don't know why, but it seems that the [tissue site ID] is not specific to a 
tissue. We now test Ovary and Testis so there's only one gender in each group.

10.26
The top one differentially expressed gene SLC36A3 was reported to be restricted 
in Testis.
Ref: DOI: 10.1007/s00335-003-2319-3

11.03
Drew a boxplot instead of violin plot for normalized counts as there are two 
many groups to show. Also drew a volcano plot to visualize DE genes.

11.05
The SLC25A6 have 2 transcripts in counts.data, one of them is of no count and 
may cause by error, so we deleted the empty one. As coefficient of variance is 
calculated with the use of every sample, we can expect to see more subtle 
difference between subgroup of the two main group divided by tissue, so we 
should not only take degs (differentially expressed genes) into account, but 
should use the whole conutds.data.

Some transcripts are only found in a small amount of samples while connot be 
detected in most of others. So we add an selective criterion after 
loading counts data to avoid extremly high bias in cv cause by transcripts only 
existing in 10 or 20 samples.

We cluster the groups by hierarchical clustering

11.07
Conduct k-means clustering
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To do list

Analyse heart, ovary, and testis counts data to identify co-expression genes, 
highly expressed genes and the take age, gender into account. Volcano and violin 
plot may be useful. Then analyse GO terms or Mesh? to check if there's specific 
small molecules bind to those genes or disease related to it

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pipeline:
After normalization of count data in Differential Gene Expression (DGE) analysis, 
several key steps typically follow. These steps aim to identify differentially 
expressed genes between conditions or treatments and to understand the 
biological implications of these differences. Here's an overview of the standard 
workflow:

1. **Quality Control (QC) Post-Normalization**:
    - Check the distribution of normalized counts to ensure that normalization 
    has been successful.
    - Use boxplots, density plots, or violin plots to assess the distribution of 
    counts across samples.
    - Use principal component analysis (PCA) or multi-dimensional scaling (MDS) 
    plots to visualize the overall effect of normalization and to detect 
    outliers or batch effects.

2. **Dispersion Estimation**:
    - Estimate the dispersion of counts for each gene, which reflects the 
    variability not explained by the normalization.
    - Dispersion is necessary for models that assume a negative binomial 
    distribution of the data.

3. **Differential Expression Analysis**:
    - Use statistical models (like those implemented in edgeR, DESeq2, or limma) 
    to test for differential expression between groups.
    - Adjust for multiple testing to control the false discovery rate (FDR), 
    typically using methods like the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure.

4. **Result Interpretation**:
    - Generate lists of differentially expressed genes using a threshold for 
    significance (e.g., adjusted p-value) and log fold change.
    - Summarize the results in tables including gene identifiers, log fold 
    changes, p-values, and adjusted p-values.

5. **Functional Enrichment Analysis**:
    - Perform Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis to identify biological 
    processes, molecular functions, and cellular components associated with the 
    differentially expressed genes.
    - Conduct pathway analysis using databases like KEGG, Reactome, or BioCarta 
    to find affected biological pathways.

6. **Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA)**:
    - Use GSEA to identify coordinated changes in expression of predefined gene 
    sets.
    - This is particularly useful when no single gene stands out, but a group of 
    related genes shows a consistent trend.

7. **Network Analysis**:
    - Build gene-gene interaction networks to visualize the relationship between 
    differentially expressed genes.
    - Identify key hubs or nodes in the network that may play critical roles in 
    the biological processes of interest.

8. **Validation of Findings**:
    - Validate the RNA-seq findings with independent methods such as qRT-PCR for 
    selected genes.
    - Replication of experiments in different cohorts or biological replicates 
    to confirm the robustness of the findings.

9. **Data Integration**:
    - Combine the RNA-seq data with other types of omics data (e.g., proteomics, 
    metabolomics) to obtain a holistic view of the biological system.

10. **Visualization**:
    - Use heatmaps to show the expression patterns of differentially expressed 
    genes across samples.
    - Create volcano plots to visualize the significance versus the magnitude of 
    expression changes.

11. **Reporting**:
    - Prepare a comprehensive report or manuscript detailing the methodology, 
    results, and biological implications.
    - Ensure that raw and processed data are available in public repositories 
    (like GEO or SRA) to comply with FAIR data principles.

Each of these steps provides further insight into the biological questions being 
asked and helps to build a comprehensive picture of the gene expression changes 
resulting from the experimental conditions or treatments being studied.